listen this year we were able to catch
around 50 movies it's a Toronto
International Film Festival which is a
festival in Toronto that covers films
internationally we hydrated on Tim
Hortons
we got blazed pizza and got to
experience a Woodstock level lineup like
you guys know I love Sundance have you
kept up with the channel it has my first
fest bias but TIFF showcase some of the
best of the decade TIFF summer shop
should have collabed with Cactus Jack
because they they would have sold out as
soon as that schedule dropped
I truly believe 2019 has surpassed 2014
as the best year in film this decade so
as with every fest must watch that we do
we like to split it between those we'd
rent to watch at home those worth
watching in theaters and our absolute
must watches of the year including two
that even made it to our best of the
decade list let me explain all of these
in this section are the movies that we
cut at TIFF that we think are worth
spending money on as rentals but you
know I like mentioning all the ones that
I may not have loved just liked because
they may end up being your favorites at
first we have Tami's always dying which
comes from actor turned director AV Joe
Johnson telling the story of Cathy
MacDonald who's burdened with taking
care of her dysfunctional mother only to
realize that she may not be that
different if there's a running theme
that you're going to notice and this
year's TIFF list is a class and this
being one of Canada's submissions into
TIFF boy do they make it look bleak
there's some humor in the movie but not
all of it hits as much as the ending
does for a certain character but with
this being a me second feature I am
curious to see what her next is
especially if she can get another great
performance like she did out of Felicity
Huffman who sadly couldn't be in
attendance for the QA waves comes from
director Trey Edward Schultz in what was
pitched as an American tragedy but also
a coming-of-age story it stars Kelvin go
watch loose whenever you can Harrison
jr. as the star athlete whose life
starts to crumble around him as the
music on his playlist gets louder and
louder to sum this thing is going to be
a masterpiece like something you've
never seen before but to others it's
gonna feel way too experimental with his
camera movements strobing lights blaring
soundtrack but as we said in our video
for it and we do have a bunch of little
videos
for these movies specifically regardless
of if it works for you or not this is a
movie that's gonna get hard to get out
of your head the vigil on the other hand
wouldn't leave her head cuz it was so
loud now I'm not an old man
yeah but the sound mixing on this thing
was boosted up to 11 I heard from other
screenings that it was similar and I
really do hope that they fixed that
because the story's pretty intriguing if
I was this guy short on faith and funds
who decides to not only leave his
Hasidic community but because he still
needs money takes on a job as a shomer
which in Jewish tradition means he has
to watch over the deceased body of
someone in the community but it ends up
being an evil entity he faces if you saw
Minesh it hits on similar themes and
even as the actor who was in that movie
but the way that they use horror
elements to correlate with this guy's
tragedy and something that happened in
his past it's pretty clever half the
time because the other time it's just
like jump scares that they do there are
a couple of great scares there's
fantastic practical and CG effects I
just wish they'd cut out the jump scares
and had enough faith in their story of
this man's Exodus I'm the complete
opposite side of genres we have a
political comedy called the barefoot
Emperor which is actually a sequel to a
2016 mockumentary called king of the
belgians now I haven't seen the first
one so at least I can say that the
sequel stands on its own even if the
trailer for the first two look better
but pretty much Europe is now welcoming
an emperor after the events of the first
movie which are summarized in the intro
and it satirizes how history is doomed
to repeat itself
it's definitely heightened when you take
into account brexit and a lot of other
world issues but it's just a movie that
decides to do that with a lot of dancing
for whatever reason beneath the blue
suburban skies feels like a stage play
turned a movie that follows Jennifer Ile
as the suburban housewife with two adult
children who don't do anything she also
got a husband who's fallen into a
never-ending routine and honestly she's
been prepping to become an empty-nester
and that right was stripped from her
Edward Byrnes stars and directs the
movie in black and white to capture how
mundane his family has become but I
thought it was funny
the acting all around including their
family friends makes their random
conversations engaging enough to make
you care you're just rooting for Tina to
blow up and if you like dialogue-driven
films then this would be a brisk
afternoon watch that I can see a lot of
people enjoying on Netflix about
endlessness
may soothe you to sleep and that's not
necessarily a bad thing I really like
Roy Anderson's previous features and and
it's crazy to think that this man owns
two big studio spaces where he can
painstakingly create these sets to be
the exact way that he wants to anyone
shoot until they're ready I would highly
recommend his previous ones just because
I think that if you're new to his work
you may enjoy those a little bit more
this one kind of felt like it was pieces
from a lot of other different like
movies that he wanted to make then the
QA they say that it was in fact that but
I do need to give this one a rewatch
because his movies tend to be very like
subconscious like I don't sound too
pretentious with it but they're like
experiences they're vignettes that
really seep into your sub-conscience
hearts and bones stars Hugo Weaving as a
journalist with PTSD whose photographs
caused him to cross paths with a
Sudanese refugee who has a connection to
those pictures fine performances an
emotional storyline dealing with him
becoming a father even at the risk of
losing your partner which was the part
of the movie that I like the most but it
did remind me of this picture by Kevin
Carter which I highly recommend reading
up on if you haven't the platform should
be on Netflix soon and it's a Spanish
sci-fi where two people per level have
to survive for roughly a month as food
goes down the center platform thing is
while there is enough food for everyone
on every level
the people at the top start overeating
and those in the 100's and who knows how
far goes
tend to go starving it's super
entertaining even though it leaves you
with the way more questions than it does
answers you will die at 20 is a Sudanese
coming of death tale where the villages
holy man predicts that a boy will die at
20 that day of his birth the toll that
takes on the boy religiously and
socially feels like a curse but once he
turns 19 the decisions he starts making
it's not gonna be for everyone but it
made for a crazy movie Colorado space
stars Keane cage in this HP Lovecraft
adaptation where a meteorite ruins of
family's home
slowly with it's trippy effects pretty
much imagine a much goofier Mandie
featuring chong where Nic Cage is family
just so happens to be inside that alien
bubble from annihilation where
everything is changing they just are
unaware of it and it has a couple of
great cage flip-outs
weathering with you isn't as good as
your name but if you
a lot of fans know that already but
senpai is a better character than anyone
in that movie for sure in this one run
away goes to the city and the friends a
girl who can manipulate weather and then
Makoto Shinkai hijinks ensue it's still
just as Q you know the pop music blasts
after every realisation of character as
and the animation is gorgeous so I know
for many of you this is a day one in the
theatre disco stars josephine padilla
who i know wasn't scam and here she's a
competitive dancer who starts losing her
edge so her family starts questioning
whether her faith is a factor in it it
pretty much treats religion as a drug
where instead of going to therapy when
you need help when you're feeling a
little faulty she takes a higher dose of
religion so she goes from Steven Furtick
to a midsummer camp
we weren't able to catch Maria's
Paradise which I know has similar themes
so I'm curious if anyone saw that one
how it deals with it but to also see if
their church also had an espresso bar
pretty good movie but I thought it was a
little one-sided at times to religion
sound of metal stars Riz Ahmed who
starts losing his hearing which is kind
of a problem considering he's a heavy
metal drummer the movie runs two hours
in 10 minutes and takes its time letting
you experience what his routine is like
living out of an RV and how drastically
different it is when you strip away
those everyday sounds you took for
granted again a little long for me but I
would say this one sound of metal and
also sound of silence which I believe is
on Netflix already from Sundance I'm
curious to hear from the deaf community
because I think Riz Ahmed gave an
incredible performance in this one black
conflicts can be seen as the answer to
choke her and may rely too heavily on
the be nice to Psychopaths and maybe
they won't become Psychopaths but I
really like the patience it took when
exploring to vastly different people
living in the same small town in the 80s
when a girl exploring womanhood when a
man dealing with his masculinity both
feeling alone the lighthouse is so
effective at being a feverish nightmare
I never want to see it again we got this
with Rob repaired and said I kid you not
sitting a mere 10 meters from us so I
would know when something was gonna
happen on the screen that was bad
because I would see the man flinching
and yeah I felt just as crazy as Robert
did watching a movie as he was in the
movie although somebody all look forward
to B not liking
because then you know to put at your top
this would fall in the four act six sag
type of movies that aren't my cup of tea
but I respect the filmmaking in them I
put it up there with climax this year as
being the movies that do everything
right they just you know make me feel
like the characters going through
hallucinations - the alcohol it's a rent
it from me but I know it's a first watch
for many of you and it deserves to be
seen on the tallest best contract screen
since you know that's how your homeboy
put it in the script Clifton Hill feels
like mystery murder podcast the movie
I'd prefer to go read the body of
Christopher Creed but there are
enjoyable parts in this movie I loved
how it was pitched as the moving the
Agra falls doesn't want you to know
about since the deals with a murder
cover-up in the off season a little
goofy when it comes to the protagonist
injecting herself in the case and the
ending has been done better elsewhere
but I did appreciate the David
Cronenberg role and seeing him hose the
podcast asking people to comment like
and subscribe that said we do have a
movie that I'm gonna wrap this one on
that we really don't want to recommend
it's not that it's bad it's a really
good movie it's the official judge
submission for the Oscars it just made
us feel terrible instinct tells a story
of the psychologist who becomes obsessed
with her newest patients who just so
happens to be a violent serial rapist
about to go on parole and according to
the tip site this was supposed to be
audacious they give a Content warning it
has the question is there always a
consistent distinction between victim
and abuser where intense is both
unimportant and unclear yet this movie
isn't gonna be for a lot of people but
they were right this film is taxing on
the audience the way the darkest parts
of any movie involving rape can be but
I'm not gonna say that it doesn't spark
a discussion I'll be an angry one but on
that third act
you are both disgusted but at the same
time surprised appalled I don't really
know what words to say but I would
recommend another movie that we caught
at Sundance called Queen of Hearts which
is actually Denmark submission to the
Oscars which plays with the same power
dynamics it still may not be for
everyone but it's much less aggressive
than this one over here so add that one
on your radar but again instinct
made us feel terrible but I guess that's
the point so I can't fault it now we
want to break down a really quick
segment dealing with the shorts that we
caught some of which were good enough to
even make Elina stop 10 up there with
the full-length features but we gotta
start with the controversial one that
Alena and Zack were able to catch called
the reffed do you got on over to the
inter cup podcast channel that we got
you'll hear Zack talk about how at his
screening this short actually caused a
commotion amongst the other filmmakers
and audiences TIFF even had to apologize
for this during the Q&A I'm not gonna
spoil what's on the raft but know that
it's meant to be a violent satire from
Germany where this performance artist
puts on a lot of bodies for people to
see it's disgusting
it pissed a lot of people off and I'm
curious because it's always very
difficult to see shorts unless they get
released on YouTube but have this or
don't have this on your radar all cats
are gray in the dark Alena was able to
catch it's the complete opposite but
this one actually won the shorts award
as it follows a cat man probably not
recommended for dog people but it is
interesting when you search up the the
title and what it means to see where it
actually originates from Anna follows a
single mother living in a war-torn
Ukraine who decides to try some speed
dating with the local Americans and we
really liked a translator bit Oracle
captures an anxiety through a child's
perspective during a home renovation and
we thought it was pretty interesting
why slugs have no legs uses the metaphor
of busy bees and it's animation to
tackle the monotonous lifestyle so many
people find themselves in human nature
was pretty tricky because it flips
animals as humans and humans as animals
so kind of like showcase the love and
harm we caused to each other you know
even as pets when we're minding our own
business and then there's nimac which
well I had played this one at the tiff
library and we follow a cellist who
encounters a stranger in a subway anyway
it was giving me this really weird
emotion that only of course your goes
did direct it of course he would I would
love to actually see him make an
anthology of shorts because this one is
not really a plot as much as there is an
emotion that's cycling through I could
see a bunch of his shorts maybe like on
Netflix or Hulu if you worked on
something in terms of her top shorts I
would put no crying at the dinner table
which follows a family
confesses their secrets and perceptions
on tape only to then have those
confessions replay to all of them at the
dinner table as they cry you cry and
then it gets too blurry to read the
credits flash is a beautifully animated
short that has five women of various
ages explaining the relationship with
their bodies through stop-motion and
Alina even compared it a lot to another
one of her favorites called hot flash
which uses similar animation and deals
with a weather woman trying to keep her
cool during a hot flash which just leads
to more flashing the other two that
Alena was able to see which she pitched
to me sounded incredible like there's
this one called exam which follows a
girl who is forced to deliver cocaine
and I know that with shorts they're very
difficult to tease because they're
already short fills but I'm just gonna
I'm just gonna give you a little bit of
a spoiler because they're already
talking about our letterbox you know
when you hear the gulp you'll be doing
the complete opposite and then there's
the best one of them all I'll end up in
jail which which really could be a full
feature I really regret missing this one
after she gave me the LME on it cuz if I
was a woman ready to leave her trouble
life only to rear-end herself in some
more problems once a murder occurs but
that murder divulges more and more
secrets and Wow
we'll also be catching more shorts at
the Chicago fest it might even make a
video at the end of the year covering
the best one so if you're interested or
have some suggestions let us know
[Music]
now it's time to cover the ones that I
think are worth watching in theaters
these are fantastic movies not our
master P not the most watches yet but
damn good movies and there are a lot
Antigone it's a modern-day adaptation of
the Sophocles play as it follows an
immigrant family in Montreal it's also
inspired by the police shooting of
Freddy via Nova as Antigone the main
character hatches a plan to break her
brother out of prison in order to swap
places with him does it get goofy up
points yeah with the prison switcheroo
like the main climax it doesn't really
make any sense but everything after is
fantastic it's heartbreaking it
showcases the Internet in an interesting
way by not really displaying snapchat
Twitter or Instagram but creating an
aesthetic that gives you the feel of all
of those while creating a movement for
Antigone and she's put on trial an
intriguing adaptation that's also Canada
submission for the Oscars 1982 is
another movie that observes a private
school in Beirut right in the midst of
Lebanon's invasion that year but what
makes the movie so captivating is how it
splits between the adults political
views on the situation and then the
viewpoint of the kids who are more
concerned about writing each other notes
nadine labaki does an incredible job as
a teacher here and what's crazy is that
last year she directed the
oscar-nominated capernum and now maybe
starring in another one as this is
Lebanon submission for this year and it
definitely earned its spot a couple more
of Elena's picks that I didn't get to
catch but she wanted to mention here are
sleepwalkers an Argentinian film that
tells a story of a mother and her family
who while on holiday with her in-laws is
pressured on how to raise their
sleepwalking daughter as secrets are
exposed one revelation pushes both
mother and daughter closer than they
would have ever liked
Zana on the other hand which really
intrigued me follows lumes journey to
conceive after losing her only child
during the war but the way she described
a third act and how it flips your
expectations makes me want to go see it
and I already know the ending Hustler's
is the female wolf of wallstreet that
surprisingly lena didn't like that much
but i did that deserve to be just as
long to get the full story to be honest
with you
waves is this intriguing a 20-4 film
that at one point was being pitched as a
musical which is interesting considering
how its contemporary soundtrack comes
off as a play
for the movie that really feels like
it's split into parts and I feel a lot
of people are gonna like it mmm a lot of
people aren't gonna pain and glory has
director Pedro almodvar who once didn't
talk to Antonio Banderas for so long
because he didn't like his acting in one
of his movies and now he's directing him
as a director who also has to rekindle
relationship with his actor who he
didn't talk to because he didn't like
how he acted in his movie all I'll say
is that it has one of the most beautiful
endings of the year and if you have time
to catch some more of Pedro's work it's
definitely worth it hope cap also sees
the director William Nicholson self
reflecting on his youth and his parents
during their divorce
it has Annette Bening in one of the best
performances of the year and if she
isn't nominated just so they can play
that juicy delivery of a scene where she
compares divorce to murder that I'm
gonna be really disappointed so it would
be better for me if you were dead it
would be better in every way son mother
comes from the documentarian Mehnaz
Mohammed II who's making her fiction
feature debut with this and it's
heartbreaking Leila's a widow and I ran
with two kids who has no choice but to
marry a man in order to have funds for
her infant daughter but that means that
her boy because this man as a girl has
to be sent away to a deaf school where
the teachers don't realize he can hear
everything they're saying as he waits
longer than expected for his mom to pick
him back up I haven't seen Iran's
official submission this one right here
but this one was great
Jojo rabbit is psycho wotty teased anime
adaptation I'm just I'm just kidding
it's psycho satire on World War 2 that
shows through a child's perspective how
easily it is to get indoctrinated with
hate I think it's hilarious as I
mentioned in the the review that we made
I hate that it's up for the you know
award circuit because I feel like it
kind of takes away from the movie or it
adds a lot of more I don't know I feel
like just it's not able to be enjoyed as
a comedy because people are now seeing
it as having to be representative of
something but hey it won the People's
Choice at TIFF so maybe it will go all
the way to get a Best Picture now now
for the last two we have Joker and
knives out Joker has it already started
a lot of film bro Fight Club like fights
discussing it yeah is this still a good
movie I think so but between Phoenix's
performance and the way it subverts DC
characters from Gotham I
it is a solid if not troubled movie
about one of the most iconic on-screen
villains of our time and knives ow is
one of the most entertaining movies of
the year like it doesn't have to top
your end of the year list but I can't
see people I can't see people being
bored with this movie you know I think
there's enough re-watch value within its
script and performances
I love the underlying themes and I think
it's a better ending than what Ryan was
going for with the last Jetta now it's
time for the best of the best you know
what that means
[Music]
have a good time yes I utterly fell in
love with this movie this feels like a
reverse eternal sunshine where an
elderly man tries to reconnect with his
wife through this Westworld
Truman Show like experience where they
recreate any moment like it's very
expensive but you can create any moments
or period you like and this man decides
to pick the day he met his wife in the
70s if you like any of the movies that I
had mentioned while describing this one
including Synecdoche New York I'm not
saying that it's gonna surpass any of
those but I feel like you would really
like this movie and I highly recommend
it this will be one in my mind with
seamless lube ASCII like shots that's
been uncut inside their car to a jarring
middle that makes the second half feel
like you're watching the sequel to waves
director Trey Edward Schultz and actor
Kelvin Harrison jr. who he collaborated
with for the story have crafted
something that legit made me go can they
can they do that in a movie if Adler
doesn't get nominated for directing I
I'm promising you right here in this
video I will not cover the Oscars next
year I would just pretend like the
ceremony didn't even happen if her
previous two movies weren't enough to
show you that she's a master at her
craft he or she literally directs a
feature-length mr. Rogers episode about
forgiveness that begins with a dude
punching his father at his sister's
wedding this is the mr. Rogers movie she
made Tom Hanks as Fred Rogers feels
perfect but it's even better that he's
playing a supporting character which I
was surprised to see him as but it's
also fitting for a figure like Rogers to
be the supporting character he's being
interviewed by Esquire and that's pretty
much the whole points of the movie that
you're following but if you haven't seen
the documentary we highly recommend that
before you go watch this movie we even
got a video on it which is one of our
personal favorite LME's because I grew
up watching mr. Rogers and I believe
Heller embraced that kindness without
coming off too hokey and was able to
capture the emotions of every single
character and every scene in every frame
oh this movie right off the bat I know
this does not have to do with the music
Oh even though it does get quoted this
is its own thing this feels like a 20-19
Lehane meets training day that has this
energy that caught me off guard you
pretty much follow three cops who are
dealing with different groups within
this district trying to navigate
tensions maintain a trust that they may
have not earned but that they also
forget doesn't span to the younger
generation the movie never stops
but it's that third act that puts it on
a whole nother level like it's super
engaging and I think it encapsulates a
way of thinking that a lot of younger
people who are not as interested in
picking aside that the older generation
has told them they they have to and
seeing how they will revolt and I love
this movie
while we have another French movie that
we love more it's still a great choice
as France's official submission for the
Academy Awards and one of our favorite
movies of the year at this point I would
be going on a whole spiel of Honeyboy
which we first got at Sundance but I
already had my thoughts there I just
want to put it on your radar but I'll
use this to segue to the Trinity of 2019
our three favorite movies that we I
don't think are gonna be taught for this
year cuz they they're just fantastic
I cannot wait for you guys to see it
it's just a matter of which one ends up
on top right but if you followed us for
enough years you know we could care less
about ranking we really really do not
care about giving someone a number I'm
just glad we get to enjoy all three of
these
without a doubt it's better than good
time in my opinion and it's come from
someone who really likes good time we
have an entire video on this movie so
I'll just add that I agree
this is the best Passover movie out
right now like with midsummer it may
just be us who have a different
definition of what's a therapeutic movie
but I could watch Sandler's grimy self
sputtering excuses for days
and this may be one of my favorite
quotes of the year if not sci-fi for
sure this is me this is how I win now
when it comes to these final two if
you've seen our video right here you
would know that we've been going back
and forth Elina nigh on which is better
so I'll let the ladies go first portrait
may be the best love story of 2019
portraits premise is pretty simple an
artist is commissioned to paint a
wedding portrait for a young woman who
refuses to be painted or get married but
what really makes the movie is how
Selene schema frames are shots and what
really makes her shots is the sweeping
story that should be watched on the
biggest screen to capture its beauty and
what really makes the script beautiful
it's how the two lead actresses play
ping pong with this dialogue serving
each other some of the best rebuttals of
the year and then there's parasite I'm
not going to reveal anything more than
the log line here like I said I'll be
doing the spoiler video by the end of
October at this point I think it's going
to be a cliche movie if you're on
Twitter right now you can see that but I
think that's not a bad thing that's a
good thing that's how good this is that
it's a cliche I hope it NAB's the Best
Picture nom I hope it changes the way
people see subtitled films who may have
not given them a second chance
I think this poster right here which
already resembles another masterpiece is
already iconic and will be remembered
for generations to come like a bunch of
these pulses right here it's what us
want it to be and it's the movie that
brushed up against whiplash as being my
best of the deck I'm so excited for you
guys to watch all these movies thank you
guys for checking out this video I'm
Pearce know your thoughts down below in
the comments section again we have a
list over on letterbox if you want to go
check it out we have the inter cup
podcast segments on if you want to know
a longer version of our thoughts but I
also recommend going to go check out our
friends a man at the jedis video she was
also in Toronto and covered it
Carson run quiz video he was also in
Toronto saw a lighthouse I think 47
times
but just catch as many people's reviews
and festival stuff for movies to have on
your radar I'm curious to know your guys
thoughts if you were at TIFF or some of
the movies we missed well I know we're
doing Chicago not sure what other film
festivals we may have but there's
anything you you you think we missed I
know I know we have a couple right here
these I definitely want to catch them as
soon as possible there were some other
ones that we tried to get into you just
weren't able to or we asked for
screeners but - told us so big enough so
I'll buy my ticket and support the movie
if computer teams can't but I'm curious
to know you guys thoughts any other
movies that you recommend let me know
down below and until next time don't
forget to comment like and subscribe and
I'll send you a gem that is uncut